---
layout: post
title: The First Post of the Year
date: 2012-01-09 22:08
comments: true
---

The first post of the new year. Actually the first post in quite a while. As the bad guy in Raiders of the Lost Ark would say; "What shall we talk about?". Today I am going to talk about a particular new year's resolution of mine. I have plenty of them but this particular one has nothing to do with photography. This one has to do with technology. It's long and kinda boring so if you are not into the workings of the web and some related stuff you definitely want to move on now.

The new years resolution on my mind for the last 10 days has to do with the *cobbler's children go without shoes effect*. A couple of things that I specialize in are efficient workflows, elegant technology solutions, and *big organization tech* for individuals and small scale operations. As part of that I develop, design, and manage the implementation and the operations of those solutions. When it comes to my own "tech" - it's a mess. A little bit here, a little bit there, a sprinkle of this and a sprinkle of that… 

This must change. It voilates my sense of design and my desire for simplicity. It goes against my *feng shuei* if you will. Not the traditional feng shuei more of my own version - one that only cares about mostly about those little annoyances that grate on you every day. Like a towel rack that is placed too high by the sink where you have to reach upwards for it with wet hands - causing water to run down your arms and dampening your shirt cuffs. A minor thing that turns into a huge thing after the thousandth time it happens.

How does that relate to my own personal technology? In more ways than I can count but the focus of my annoyance for the last 10 days has been this blog. It started out innocently enough. Never really *tried* to develop a lot of traffic. Never really had any  intent to fine tune it's SEO. Never had a plan. Just did it the *easy* way. Wordpress on Dreamhost.com. I hate Wordpress. I dislike Dreamhost. 

I hate wordpress on so many levels that I won't waste time expaining all of them. First and foremost I hate typing into a browser text box as a writing tool. I hate proofreading it in a browser textbox as well. I solved that but the work-flow was cumbersome. Over time my work-flow of writing and posting has become less cumbersome. That required that I write a couple of tools to make it so. I don't want to write tools - well not for wordpress anyway. I don't want to debug issues. I don't want to recover from security breaches. I just want an elegant set of tools to write, proof, and post. If I wanted to develop tools and solutions I certainly wouldn't want to do it for Wordpress. I really don't want a content management system of any sort.

It's too much infrastructure that I don't want. For years I have been toying with the idea of moving off Wordpress. Every once in a while I even put a couple of hours into actually doing a proof of concept with the particular toolset/platform that looks like a good candidate. I have looked at a bunch of them. Played with a bunch of them. In many cases I have actually ended up *using* some of those candidates for other people's projects.

The toolset and platform that I end up coming back to over and over again is [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/). Jekyll is awesome. It's elegant. It's simple. The tool is completely independent of the deployed content. There is virtually zero infrastructure required to host a site built with Jekyll. Your content, your design, and the function of your site are all completely independent of Jekyll if you want to move to a different way of doing things down the road (with a couple of minor caveats = front matter and Liquid). Last but not least your choice of tools to maintain and extend your site are completely independent of each other.

The rest of this post is a bird's eye view of the technologies, associated toolsets, and what's - what with respect to Jekyll. Well, it's that with a smattering of other things that are cool even without Jekyll. Considerit a semi-annotated tour for the uninitiated, if you will. The motivation for writing this was sparked about a year ago by reading [the funniest post ever](http://groups.google.com/group/haml/browse_thread/thread/f52b6750507b478) on a forum that I frequent. Understand that I am not amused by the absolute frustration of the person that opened the thread. I am amused by the amount of background really required in order to use some tools that are amazingly simple. 

While there are many many detailed "how-tos" out there, most of the good ones make one **huge** assumption - that you understand Ruby, the Ruby community, a lot of the major ruby packages, and a bunch of peripherally related technologies. I will not even attempt to re-write or consolidate the good "how-tos". Instead I will try to provide enough understanding and *just enough detail* to understand how various things are related to each other, what they do, and why you may or may not want to use them.

First things first. Let's start with the do-dads that you will most likely be spending a substantial amount of time with. This would be the tool or tools that you use to actually produce content. For me simple == good. Simple == elegant. Simple == plain text. It can be produced and consumed in more ways with fewer dependancies than any other format. You can choose just about any tool to produce plain text. I happen to use a a particular variety of plain text called [markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/basics). Markdown is just an extremely simple way of adding a couple of common HTML tags to plain text. 

I have used just about every plain text editor on the face of the planet. I own just about every one of the new wave of Mac OS X plain text editors out there. From [WriteRoom](http://www.hogbaysoftware.com/products/writeroom) to [ByWord](http://bywordapp.com/) to [iA Writer](http://www.iawriter.com/). For coding of any kind I continuously come back to good ol' [vi](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vi). For prose I have settled in on iA Writer.

While all of the *simple*, single purpose, highly focused, *distraction free* text editors that I own are generally pretty good, iA Writer is my choice because I feel that it is the most true to it's mission of doing that **one** thing extremely well. It has **no** options. The UI is the most refined. It's the prettiest. Oh, and it uses a [font I absolutely love](http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/bold_monday/nitti_ot/) as it's one and only font.

There is some degree of critisism regarding iA Writer floating around. They boil down to;

* Costs too much compared to it's competetors - who cares all of them are crazy - disposable - good cup o' coffee - cheap.
* There is no good way to get HTML onto the clipboard directly from iA - Tons of work-arounds that fit nicely within my work-flow.
* No support for [QuickCursor](http://www.hogbaysoftware.com/products/quickcursor) - Yet.

Yep - my main writing environment for anything less than 5,000 words, "stream of conciousness" stuff, **and** Wordpress is iA Writer. Actually I use iA Writer for just about all prose and if the final document is large and needs structure it all ends up in [Scrivener](http://www.literatureandlatte.com/scrivener.php). Scrivener loves sucking in little plain text docs. Scrivener is a fantastic large writing project organizational tool. Scrivener is a story for another time. 

The one add-on that I use with iA Writer is farily new - [Marked](http://markedapp.com/). Marked is very cool. It's lot in life is to render Markdown. The cool part is that it can use any CSS that you want and any Markdown processor that you want. In fact it can process anything because you can specify a custom processor - it doesn't have to be Markdown. It also provides a really quick way to put the rendered HTML anywhere you want to, including the clipboard. The only ohter thing that could be considered an *add-on* I use for plain text prose is [DropBox](http://www.dropbox.com/) so that all of my docs are available on all my devices.

So today my blog writing toolset/work-flow consists of writing markdown in iA Writer -> processing to HTML *automagically* using Marked -> shooting it to the Wordpress API via some cobbled together tools and custom code. Not too bad but I really want to lose the 10 ugly pounds of fat that is Wordpress and associated themes+plug-ins. Enter Jekyll.

Jekyll is extremely simple. In a nutshell it renders a static HTML web site by merging your markdown with HTML layout templates. That's it. The resulting set of files can be deployed on pretty much anything that serves up HTML documents. Jekyll is not involved at all in the operating site. Extremely light weight, HTML, CSS, webserver. What's not to like? The only thing in addition to out of the box web standards that you need to know is a little bit of something called [Liquid](http://liquidmarkup.org/).

Liquid is a templating language originally developed by the [Shopify.com people](http://www.shopify.com/) that is a simple secure way for users to specify variables and basic control logic in HTML templates. The common denominator for both Jekyll and Liquid is that they both are ruby and require a ruby run-time environment. This is where things go terribly awry. Not because you need to know how to progam in ruby. Not that ruby is somehow *hard*. Things go awry becuase there are a million assumptions made in any of the how-to's that the reader knows the ruby environment and the ruby community.

Here are some very opinionated things about the ruby run-time environment that you need to know assuming that you are starting from zero. If you are running windows just forget it. It's possible but why bother. Heck it's way *easier* today than it was even a year ago but why endure the pain - any pain. It's far far easier and faster just to install Ubuntu Linux in VirtualBox under windows if you *must* use windows as a platform. It may not be quicker in absolute terms of getting ruby going but will be in terms of everything else "just working" as well as up-to-date information and assistance if required. If you are on a Mac or Linux distro as your primary computing platform - both of those are easy-peasy and most likely already have a mostly-functioning ruby environment.

You have two choices to make a fully functional ruby environment. One add the stuff to the system-wide configuration to make it whole. The second being to install [RVM](http://beginrescueend.com/) - and then a brand new ruby interpreter and a brand new gems install to your own account environment. If you know what you are doing - choose the first one. If you don't choose the RVM way. You don't need to learn or even use RVM in any way more than to follow the very simple RVM install instructions. The only reason I am recommending this is that installing a new ruby environment and gems environment is pretty much fool-proof no matter what the state of affairs is with your system-wide configuration or even the OS packaged versions of ruby. If you give a crap RVM is not only useful but also a good example of some fairly slick shell programming.

Hold on there one freaking second - you said *"Gem"*. WTF is a gem? No big deal. Simple answer… gems are packages of ruby software. All you need to know about it to get jekyll (and a lot of other things) going is;

{% gist 1586573 %}

Once you understand that the above command is *the* way to install software packages - no matter if they are stand-alone or API libraries - you can pretty much use a ton of extremely useful software written in ruby even if you don't give a crap about ever learning, using, or seeing a line of ruby code.

Before going hog wild and installing the endless chain of gem *stuff* that is discussed/assumed/talked about surrounding Jekyll let's cover some of the more popular things that you will likely read or hear about so that you can make some decisions about how much gem *stuff* you want or need. What's-what and Who's-who.

The first things you will most likely run into when reading anything about Jekyll is the word "fork" and the word "git". If you are a developer and have been living under a rock you might want to look into git. If not - forget forking and forget git. Keep it simple and just install the released gems. For the curious [git](http://git-scm.com/) is the best version control system I have ever used. For the last few years I have used nothing else and have no plans to. I use git for everything. I cannot say the same thing for any other SCM I have ever had the ~~dis~~pleasure of being aquainted with. Fork is pretty much refering to using [github.com](https://github.com/) to create your own connected version of the software to customize until your heart's content. Don't want/care to develop your own version of *stuff* don't git - don't fork - don't care.

There are plenty of names/words/terms that will come up whenever Jekyll is discussed or written about. Generally they are going to be optional extensions that make Jekyll do other things beyond it's base funcitonality. Things like supporting tags, categories, other ways of coding layout tempates - you name it. Without even attempting to inventory them all there are a couple of things that come up constantly. Namely Haml, SASS, and Compass. 

In the briefest possilbe terms Haml, SASS, and Compass are shortcuts or alternatives to writing HTML and CSS by hand. All three are worth understanding but none are necessary for using Jekyll. In fact they really are general purpose tools and libraries that are incredibly useful in many contexts. I will start with Haml and SASS.

The reason I lumped Haml and SASS together is multifaceted. Both come from the same *people*. Haml and SASS used to be bundled together in the same ruby gem even though they do not really depend on each other at all from a useage perspective. You can use Haml and forget SASS or vis versa. Haml is shorthand HTML. SASS is shorthand and extended features for CSS. Both can be used as stand-alone utilities from the command line and be extremely useful for putting together HTML and CSS even if ruby is never involved again. In other words you don't have to develop ruby applications to use Haml or SASS as amazing utilities themselves.

The main reason [Haml](http://haml-lang.com/) is useful is that it's syntax maps directly to HTML tags sans the requirement to open and close each tag with all the angle bracket \</bullshit\>. You open a tag with %tag and the nesting is completely controlled by indentation level like so…

{% gist 1586590 %}

turns into…

{% gist 1586602 %}

Get it? Sort of? By the way, that "randomtag" thing is quite literal. Haml doesn't care if it is valid tag. It will put the tag out. This makes Haml extremely useful for templating an amazing amout of things. The amazing thing is that Haml will also run embedded ruby code. When used as an object inside a runtime context this makes for a fantastic templating language with infinite flexibility. But wait, there's more. Even without the ruby code anything that is **not** Haml or ruby code is ignored and output as-is. What this means is that you can use the stand-alone Haml processor to output HTML containing **any** text. That text does not have to be static text meant for consumption by humans. It can be yet another templating language. In the context of Jekyll, if you use any of the pre-baked Haml extensions this would mean that Haml outputs HTML with Liquid tags. From Haml's point of view the Liquid tags would be plain old static text. From Jekyll's point of view they would be interpreted and filled in.

As an aside, the reason I have been dilly-dallying with using Jekyll or not has been my desire to use Haml as the actual templating language alone. Meaning my Jekyll layouts would be Haml with embedded ruby code in contrast with merely a Haml preprocessor that uses Liquid tags. For the most part I was successful in realizing my desires but the code that I *forked* and modified wasn't really maintained and had some behavioral issues that needed care and attention by me. Given my track record with having time for working on my own technology stack, I have no desire to maintain my own branch of Jekyll or anything else. I feel too much like this with Wordpress.

As of right now I have made my peace with Liquid. It's not so bad. I do like having the pure power of access to all of the internal context and variables *immediately* but that is exactly the reason the core Jekyll package will **never** support Haml as a native templating language. If you have the time or the *need* you can always roll-your-own Liquid extension to do just about anything and understand that there is a standard way to integrate it into Jekyll without maintaining your own version of Jekyll. In the end - this is a lot less work and a better way to go for me for anything that is really not part of my core business focus.

Next up with have the close relative of Haml, [SASS](http://sass-lang.com/). Like Haml SASS is a stand-alone utility which in fact is probably used more as a stand-alone utility rather than integrated in to ruby code. sass as a stand-alone takes two completely different dialects of code and produces plain jane css as output. sass is regularly used outside of ruby world to produce css code either in it's raw form or bundled into other tools that use sass as a language. 

The two different varieties of code that sass processes are *filename*.sass and *filename*.scss. The first variety - sass is of the same philosophy as Haml - short hand and indentation controlled nesting level. The second and newer variety - scss - *looks* more like css in it's structure but includes a lot of the extended features to the css syntax. Both varieties can be extremely expressive comparatively to plain vanilla css. Both are fully supported but as of late scss seems to be the variety that is becoming more preferred and adopted. I am sure that one of the characteristics of scss contributes to this is that the **any** valid css is also valid scss.

Okay - we're done with Haml and SASS. Both are absolutely not necessary to use Jekyll but both are heavily used within the community that uses Jekyll and both are highly useful on their own. Even if you never touch a line of ruby code SASS is definitely worth looking at if you do any level of work on CSS. Haml is also worth looking into. The really cool thing about Haml is that the learning curve is so short if you know HTML at all that the very first thing you do with it only takes marginally longer to do it in Haml starting from zero and it becomes so addictive and so fast compared with open tag close tag repeat repetitive motion injury inducing hard to type fluff characters over and over… that once you use Haml for the first time - you can not stand to write strait HTML any more. I use Haml for all of my Html work - every bit not just the "ruby stuff". 

All of that SASS talk really was a lead up to something else, namely [Compass](http://compass-style.org/). Compass is written in ruby, uses SASS, and unlike the former is used widely outside the ruby community. What does it "do"? Well SASS does nothing all by itself. It's pretty much a blank slate. Compass on the other hand includes a *bunch* of standard grid based css frameworks like [blueprint](http://blueprintcss.org/) as well as a *way of doing things*. This is fantastic. At least conceptually. Unlike Haml that can be absorbed and mastered in an hour or two, the learning curve for Compass is kinda large if you are new to any of the grid based frameworks it includes. 

If you know them or plan on using them the learning curve is probably well worth the effort. If not… well I am by no means a css guru. At the same time I am no neophyte. My exposure to Compass has been limited but intense. With no exceptions, I have failed to make changes to a Compass based CSS in the way the author intended even when I have spent considerable time attempting to grok what the hell was going on and what the authors intent was. Instead I have resorted to using the browser development inspector to see what selectors were matching a particular set of HTML elements I was interested in and jamming plain old css with very specific slectors into a css file that was included last.

Why bring up Compass? For two reasons - One, without fail you will encounter it or even get it as part of an install of other software when playing around in Jekyll world. Two it is a big part of [Octopress](http://octopress.org/). Octopress uses Jeykell, Compass, Rake(ruby's build automation tool), a bunch of really nice Liquid extensions, and a pre-cooked set of styles that provide a fairly complete blogging pakage right out of the box with a set way of doing things that is a bit more structured than roll-your-own wild west of Jekyll. In fact Octopress may be the place to start rather than finish if you are interested in using any of this stuff but are not super familiar with the ruby environment. Most people that aren't scared to death of the command line can probably get a blog up and running in about 5 minutes with Octopress.

When I first played with Octopress earlier this year I started to develop a dumbass complex that I was the only one that just gave up on understanding Compass'isms that I myself didn't develop from scratch. Especially when dealing with an included framework that I wasn't familiar with. Like usual after 30 minutes or so of failing to acheive the desired results, not having a full grasp of what was going on, I just jammed raw css in the last included scss file targeting each specific selector I was interested in at the moment. 

I mean come on, I know I am not a "front end guy" but I have been around the block more than a couple times. I am not a complete noob here. I felt a little better after reading [this](http://wynnnetherland.com/journal/octopress-classic-is-the-new-kubrick) and realizing that 90% of ruby people playing with Octopress are using the box stock theme or just adjusting the colors or including a google font. That stuff is spelled out directly in the custom/scss files. I felt even better seeing [this](http://nimbupani.com/redesign-notes.html) and realizing I am not the only one. Ha, I didn't even have to resort to "!important"

Time to wrap this installment up. iA Writer is telling me this thing is going on 4000 words. A bit much to swallow in your rss reader, huh? Let's just summarize a prescription of what you need to get started with some of these wonderful tools.

* Assume a working c/c++ development environment and pakage installation environment. In the case of a Mac this means Xcode (free from the app store) and MacPorts. You never really have to touch this stuff for the most part it's so that ruby gem packages can build native extensions auto magically. Occasionally you may need to do something like port install x to install a dependency like sqlite3-dev headers.
* Install rvm as a nice contained, fool proof way to install a pristine USDA approved prime ruby environment and gems.
* Install a gem like jekyll or better yet octopress and you are off and running.

I realize the audience for this post is going to be small. Consider it my small community service for people that are interested in using some really great tools but might be a little overwhelmed at the assumed base level of understanding that you are likely encounter when you hit some really great and detailed step by step specific recipies out there. Yes you will need those recipes. I hope that this brief drive by will contribute a tiny bit to giving anyone just starting up a bit of contextual understanding.

RB

