---
layout: post
title: Snow Leopard Arrives On My Machines
comments: true
categories:
- Site News
---
I received my copy of Snow Leopard on Monday directly from Apple. Being the instant gratification kind of guy I am I immediately fired up the upgrade on my oldest intel machine in my possession. A first generation intel Macbook Pro, a machine that I keep up to date with software that I use but definitely non-critical and rarely used.

The upgrade went so well, so fast, and actually seemed snappier on this non-64 bit intel that I forged ahead and upgraded all of my intel machines to Snow Leopard the same day. Not real smart but hey, I had a good idea that my critical applications would have no major issues. I will not go into the boring details of Snow Leopard as there are plenty of places that you can read those, I will give you a run down of my first three days focusing on the issues that I have run into common to all of my machines.

First of the experience has been overwhelmingly pain-free. So far so good. The upgrades have all gone really fast with no hitches. Aperture runs fine and I have not had any really hairy incompatibilities. I have been trying to avoid rosetta so the fact that Snow Leopard only installs it if you ask it to has been eye opening in that there was actually more Power-PC software floating around than I had thought I had. None of it in use, mostly just Power-PC crap that has accumulated over the years that auto starts and has been carried around to new machines via setup assistant. The good news is that it is all gone now. I am Power-PC free.

Problem number one - LogMeIn.com clients in 64bit Safari do not work exactly right. I you try to access a remote machine using 64bit Safari you will get an error telling you to restart your browser. For a perfectionist like me this is intolerable, for normal people this is no big deal - just fire up Safari in 32bit or alternatively the error really isn't a giant issue there is a workaround that pretty much lets you bypass the error by going directly to the remote url vs clicking on the remote machine that works as well. If anyone would like the specifics on this one just ask.

Problem/Annoyance number two - Again this one is not a deal breaker but for someone like me it is an intolerable annoyance and things like this are why I am an Apple guy and do no touch Windoze. Blue tooth headset behavior has changed, grrrrrrrrr. The way it used to work is most apps like Skype allowed you to select a particular audio device for use within that app but without changing the global defaults for audio in and out. This is good and when a blue tooth audio device was detected under regular old leopard a message would pop up asking you if you wanted to 1) disconnect it, 2) connect it but ignore it, and 3) use it (as the default). Cool. What my normal process was was to connect it but do not "use" it. This allows apps specifically that specify it to use it but iTunes, YouTube, et al still used the system default. NOW under Snow Leopard you get two choices when a bluetooth audio device is detected - 1)disconnect it and 2) use it (as the default). THIS SUCKS, now every time I turn on my bluetooth headset I MUST CHOOSE use it, which in turn sets the system default in and out to the headset, then go into system preferences and set the defaults back to what I want them to be so that I can use the headset with skype and my other VOIP stuff while not affecting the reset of my systems. THIS MUST GET FIXED. grrrrrrr.

Anyway - that is it in terms of my issues so far. Very very nice. Oh and there is one more thing - not to most people and not really an issue, just something I did not anticipate. I am also a Ruby software developer and use the crap out of my machines for Ruby/Rails/etc. EVERYTHING in Snow Leopard is 64bit by default sooooo when you fire up the new version (build) of Ruby in the default execution path you get a 64bit Ruby interpreter - by default under leopard any Gems that you installed that have native modules that were compiled as 32bit execs. These will not load in the 64bit Ruby interpreter process space. Solution - either fire up Ruby in 32bit or what I did, re-install all of you gems that have native extetensions, this worked like a charm for all the gems I used, in typical Apple fashion the newly compiled native gem extensions are universal 32bit/64bit by default as long as you have installed the new Xcode goodies.

If you don't have your copy yet - get <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/feature.html?ie=UTF8&amp;docId=1000410511&amp;tag=rbde-20">Snow Leopard Here</a>.

RB